What is selenium ?
It is an open source too, for automation  web testing across browers ,languages ,and plateforms ,intergratining seamlessly 
with developemt platform.

2. What are different componet of selenium
selenium IDE 
selenium RC 
selenium web driver 
selenium grid 

3. What is advanvantage of using selenium 
1.open source 
2.cross platform -> windows , linux ,mnac 
3.multi language 
4.cross browser testing -> chrome , firefox ,edge 
5. Paralle execution -> selenonium grid use for parallel execution.

4. What is web driver ?

5. What is selenium 4?

6.What are some noteworthy selenium 4 features ?
1. selenium grid -easy setup with hub and node support 
2.screenshort capture -> element ,section ,page level
3.edge chromium - support the chromium driver 
4.relative locators -> now available .

7. What is diiference b/w get and naviage to() methods
get("URL") -loads a page and waits untill it is fully loaded .
navigate().to(""URL)- just navigate  without waiting 


8. What are different waits in selenium web driver .
1.implicit wait 
2.explicit wait 
3.fluent wait 

9. what is difference b/w webdriver.findelement vs webelement.findelement


10. what are all design pattern of selenium framework.

1.page object 
2.
3.

11. what are all locators that supports selenium 
12. what are differnce b/w xpath and css selector 
xpath is slower is slower than css 
13 .what is differnce b/w page object model and page factory 
14.driver.close() vs driver.quite()
driver.close()- close the current window 
driver.quite()- close the all window and end  the session.

15.advatage of using POM ?
enhances the code reuseablity  and maintainbility 
reduce code dublication 
improve readbility and scalability 
16.Can captcha be automated ?
no 

17. what are the exception are in selenium 
1. no such elment excetoion 
2.nosuch frameexception 
3. no such window exception
4.noalertpresentexception 
elementnotintertrableexception
timeout exception
statelementreferceexception
invalideselectorexcetion
sessionNotCreatedExcetion


18. How should one handle windows-based alerts or pop-ups in selenium 
java robot class can use for keyborrd and mouse action b/w selenium only for web 


19. wht are testng annotation frequety use in selenium 






